---
author: Henry Post
title: Like a Product Owner in the headlights
date: '09/17/2022'
tags: [casual]
---

EDIT: I'm not a Product Owner. ðŸ˜‚ðŸ˜‚ðŸ˜‚ It was a miscommunication. My boss meant "Expert of the product I work with".

Short version: I need to teach myself to be a Product Owner and not just focus on technical
work.

I am now a "Product Owner", and have been for a few months. But it only really sank in last
week. And after chatting with my boss about new leadership expectations and what I should
know in preparation for next year, I realize that I have been spending way too much time
doing minutiae-like tasks.

I mean, for the last 2 weeks, I've basically been just grinding out a specific build system
scanning feature. That's literally it. And I was stuck on some proxy/auth issue. I did reach
out to people, but that whole week was just totally spent doing technical stuff. I feel like
I have 3 months of tactical product owner catch-up to play.

But I feel that I must build a product roadmap, understand use cases, and I need to start
partnering with
teams in a strategic way. This is very new to me, as a DevOps/Security Engineer going
directly into a planning/management role, but I am going to try my best.

And I am also not going to worry myself excessively. I could see a younger version (I'm 25
now!) Of myself freaking out! And really stressing over this, but that panic would not help
me.

I purchased the books "Who Moved my Cheese", "The Unicorn Project", and "Product Management
for Dummies" to help prepare myself.

And I have started a "Brainstorming" notes section. I need to make a product roadmap, meet
with the vendor, and spend more time thinking about how to bring value to my customers, how
I can partner with other teams, and how I can help enhance my company's AppSec automation.
Not just focusing on small development-level tasks!

I don't really feel "bad" about not doing this earlier... And I shouldn't. I have done what
has been asked of me, and did not realize I should "change course" until yesterday.

I think, mainly because, I never really realized that this was part of my job. I was hired
to be a Security Analyst, then 1.5 years later, I'm a Security Engineer. I did Kubernetes
and Helm, did infra upgrades, Java APIs, database stuff, Security Pipeline stuff, etc. Then,
only 4 months into that, I get promoted to a new role, and 2 months into that role, I don't
really realize what my new roles are.

But realizing it late is better than having my manager's manager realize it and have to take
corrective action. And honestly, I'm not going to worry myself sick about that.

Because I'll try to do my best to be a Product Owner and learn what I need to fulfil my
role!

